@node  advancedpreferences
@section Advanced Preferences
@cindex Advanced Preferences

Some advanced TOra settings are rarely used therefore they are not added to the Preferences dialog. They can be changed by adjusting TOra configuration directly. In Linux systems that would be a @env{~/.config/TOra/Tora.conf}, in Windows systems you can find it in the registry.

@table @asis
@item @strong{ConnectionTestTimeout}
    TOra can be used to connect to remote databases via poor connection. Such situations require checking if connection is still OK before executing a query or statement. TOra is doing this test by executing a simple time query (on Oracle database that is "select sysdate from dual"). By default TOra will do this test before each statement. If you're working on a reliable connection, you can change this behaviour (and avoid sending excessive queries to database) by seting a number of seconds before a new connection test is done. For example, if you set this value to be 1800, connection test will be performed no earlier than half an hour after the previous test. Note that these tests are done separately for each pooled connection. By default TOra will use three connections but that number could change depending on actual usage.
@item @strong{Encoding}
    By default when opening files TOra will check your locale and use your encoding. The same encoding will be used when writing files. If you want to use a different encoding and do not want to change your locale encoding - you can use this setting. Value "Default" means default behaviour (using locale encoding) while other values are interpreted as encoding names. Examples of encodings (without quotes): "Windows-1257", "ISO 8859-13" etc. You can get a full list of supported encodings from @uref{http://doc.qt.nokia.com/latest/qtextcodec.html,Qt documentation}.
@item @strong{ForceLineEnd}
    Linux, Windows and Mac use different characters (or their sequences in case of windows) to mark ends of lines. TOra by default will use end of line depending on operating system you're running. You can change line end marks manually by choosing Edit->Convert End Lines To. Use "ForceLineEnd" option if you want to force all text files to be saved with a particular type of line end. Possible values are:
    @itemize @bullet
    @item @strong{Default} - do not change line end
    @item @strong{Linux}
    @item @strong{Windows}
    @item @strong{Mac}
    @end itemize
@end table

